Added the Fortigate component documentation (#9807)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_components/fortigate.markdown

---
layout: page
title: "Fortigate"
description: "Instructions on how to integrate Fortigate Firewalls into Home Assistant."
date: 2019-07-07 22:00
sidebar: true
comments: false
sharing: true
footer: true
logo: fortinet.jpg
ha_category:
  - Presence Detection

> ha_release: 0.95

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 0.96
```

ha_iot_class: Local Polling

> redirect_from:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
redirect_from:
```

Please remove this, this is only needed for older pages

Author: fixed in next commit

> redirect_from:

Reviewer: Please remove the `redirect_from`

  - /components/device_tracker.fortigate/
---

This is a Fortigate presence sensor based on device detection of the Fortigate API

## Configuration

Add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
fortigate:

>   host: <host_IP>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  host: HOST_IP
```

>   host: <host_IP>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  host: HOST_IP
```

>   username: homeassistant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  username: USERNAME
```

Author: Thanks, I also changed the USERNAME in the Fortigate configuration

>   password: <api_key>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  password: API_KEY
```

>   devices:

Reviewer: Remove `devices` because it is optional and we want only required items in the first example

Author: done

    - dev1
    - dev2
```

{% configuration %}
host:
  description: The IP of the Fortigate.
  required: true
  type: string
username:
  description: The username of the user that will connect to the Fortigate
  required: true
  type: string
password:
  description: The API key associated with the user
  required: true
  type: string
devices:
  description: The MAC addresses of the devices to monitor

>   required: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  required: false
```

>   type: string

Reviewer 2: Seems to be a list and not a string?

Author: indeed, fixed in next commit

>   type: string

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  type: [list, string]
```

{% endconfiguration %}

## Fortigate Configuration

> Configure the Fortigate with the homeassistant api user and assign its minimum rights profile :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configure the Fortigate with a `homeassistant` API user and assign its minimum rights profile :
```

Author: I changed accordingly with @klaasnicolaas remark

```fgt

config system accprofile
    edit "homeassistant_profile"
        set authgrp read
    next
end

config system api-user
    edit "homeassistant"
        set api-key <api key>
        set accprofile "homeassistant_profile"
        set vdom "root"
        config trusthost
            edit 1
                set ipv4-trusthost <trusted subnets>
            next
        end
    next
end
```

### Errors

> If the rights of the profile are not sufficient, you will get the error :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the rights of the profile are not sufficient, you will get the following error:
```

> ERROR (MainThread) [homeassistant.core] Error doing job: Task exception was never retrieved

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```txt
ERROR (MainThread) [homeassistant.core] Error doing job: Task exception was never retrieved
```
````

> And as well a python exception 'pyFGT.fortigate.FGTValueError'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And the following Python exception as well: `pyFGT.fortigate.FGTValueError`
```
